Documentation for := vs <> (#2222)
chipsalliance/chisel3: docs/src/explanations/interfaces-and-connections.md

where Vec takes a size as the first argument and a block returning a port as the second argument.

## Bulk Connections

> Once we have a defined Interface, we can connect to it via a monoConnect operator (:=) or biconnect operator (<>)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once we have a defined Interface, we can connect to it via a [`MonoConnect`](../../core/src/main/scala/chisel3/internal/MonoConnect.scala) operator (`:=`) or [`BiConnect`](../../core/src/main/scala/chisel3/internal/BiConnect.scala) operator (`<>`)
```

Might be useful to add the links here

> ### Monoconnect Algorithm
> MonoConnect.connect executes a mono-directional connection element-wise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `MonoConnect` Algorithm
`MonoConnect.connect`, or `:=`, executes a mono-directional connection element-wise.
```

> Once we have a defined Interface, we can connect to it via a [`MonoConnect`](../../core/src/main/scala/chisel3/internal/MonoConnect.scala) operator (`:=`) or [`BiConnect`](../../core/src/main/scala/chisel3/internal/BiConnect.scala) operator (`<>`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once we have a defined Interface, we can connect to it via a [`MonoConnect`](../../core/src/main/scala/chisel3/internal/MonoConnect.scala) operator (`:=`) or [`BiConnect`](../../core/src/main/scala/chisel3/internal/BiConnect.scala) operator (`<>`).

```

Note that this isn't commutative. There is an explicit source and sink
already determined before this function is called.

The connect operation will recurse down the left Data (with the right Data).
An exception will be thrown if a movement through the left cannot be matched
in the right. The right side is allowed to have extra Record fields.
Vecs must still be exactly the same size.

> See elemConnect for details on how the root connections are issued.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

this is now describing code that's actually in the MonoConnect.scala file. I'm not sure we need this level of detail here

> in the right. The right side is allowed to have extra Record fields.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in the right. The right side is allowed to have extra fields.
```

> Note that a valid sink must be writable so, one of these must hold:- Is an internal writable node (Reg or Wire)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that a valid sink must be writable so, one of these must hold:
- Is an internal writable node (`Reg` or `Wire`)
```

> Note that a valid sink must be writable so, one of these must hold:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that the LHS element must be writable so, one of these must hold:
```

- Is an output of the current module
- Is an input of a submodule of the current module

> Note that a valid source must be readable so, one of these must hold:- Is an internal readable node (Reg, Wire, Op)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that a valid source must be readable so, one of these must hold:
- Is an internal readable node (`Reg`, `Wire`, `Op`)
```

> Note that a valid source must be readable so, one of these must hold:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that the RHS element must be readable so, one of these must hold:
```

- Is a literal
- Is a port of the current module or submodule of the current module

> ### Biconnect Algorithm
> BiConnect.connect executes a bidirectional connection element-wise. Note that the arguments are left and right (not source and sink) so the intent is for the operation to be commutative. The connect operation will recurse down the left Data (with the right Data). An exception will be thrown if a movement through the left cannot be matched in the right (or if the right side has extra fields). See elemConnect for details on how the root connections are issued.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `BiConnect` Algorithm
`BiConnect.connect`, or `<>`, executes a bidirectional connection element-wise. Note that the arguments are left and right (not source and sink) so the intent is for the operation to be commutative. The connect operation will recurse down the left `Data` (with the right `Data`). An exception will be thrown if a movement through the left cannot be matched in the right (or if the right side has extra fields).
```

Reviewer: I think we should also maybe add a `####`-level header between this paragraph and the next to transition to the example, like

```mdoc
#### Using BiConnect to Connect `FilterIO`s
```

> `BiConnect.connect`, or `<>`, executes a bidirectional connection element-wise. Note that the arguments are left and right (not source and sink) so the intent is for the operation to be commutative. The connect operation will recurse down the left `Data` (with the right `Data`). An exception will be thrown if a movement through the left cannot be matched in the right (or if the right side has extra fields).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`BiConnect.connect`, or `<>`, executes a bidirectional connection element-wise. Note that the arguments are left and right (not source and sink) so the intent is for the operation to be commutative. The connect operation will recurse down the left `Data` (with the right `Data`). An exception will be thrown if a movement through the left cannot be matched in the right, or if the right side has extra fields.
```

where Vec takes a size as the first argument and a block returning a port as the second argument.

## Bulk Connections

> Once we have a defined Interface, we can connect to it via a [`MonoConnect`](../../core/src/main/scala/chisel3/internal/MonoConnect.scala) operator (`:=`) or [`BiConnect`](../../core/src/main/scala/chisel3/internal/BiConnect.scala) operator (`<>`).

Reviewer 2: These relative links won't work on the website. Usually we link to the API docs here. For now let's just remove the links
```suggestion
Once we have a defined Interface, we can connect to it via a [`MonoConnect`](https://www.chisel-lang.org/api/latest/chisel3/Data.html#:=) operator (`:=`) or [`BiConnect`](https://www.chisel-lang.org/api/latest/chisel3/Data.html#%3C%3E) operator (`<>`).
```

```
where <> bulk connects interfaces of opposite gender between sibling modules or interfaces of the same gender between parent/child modules.

> Bulk connections connect leaf ports of the same name to each other. The Scala types of the Bundles are not required to match. If one named signal is missing from either side, Chisel will give an error such as in the following example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The bidirectional connection operator `<>` connects leaf ports of the same name to each other. The Scala types of the Bundles are not required to match. If one named signal is missing from either side, Chisel will give an error such as in the following example:
```

Can you change the name of this section to "## Bidirectional Bulk Connections" ?

> Bulk connections connect leaf ports of the same name to each other. The Scala types of the Bundles are not required to match. If one named signal is missing from either side, Chisel will give an error such as in the following example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Bidirectional bulk connections connect leaf ports of the same name to each other. The Scala types of the Bundles are not required to match. If one named signal is missing from either side, Chisel will give an error such as in the following example:
```

```scala mdoc:silent

class NotReallyAFilterIO extends Bundle {
  val x = Flipped(new PLink)
  val y = new PLink
  val z = Output(new Bool())
}
class Block extends Module {
  val io1 = IO(new FilterIO)
  val io2 = IO(Flipped(new NotReallyAFilterIO))

  io1 <> io2
}
```
Below we can see the resulting error for this example:
```scala modc:crash
ChiselStage.emitVerilog(new Wrapper)
```
Caution: bulk connections should only be used with **directioned elements** (like IOs), and is not magical (e.g. connecting two wires isn't supported since Chisel can't necessarily figure out the directions automatically [chisel3#603](https://github.com/freechipsproject/chisel3/issues/603)).

For example, putting two temporary wires and connecting them here will not work, even though the directions could be known from the endpoints:

```scala mdoc:silent

class Block extends Module {
  val io = IO(new FilterIO)
  val f1 = Module(new Filter)
  val f2 = Module(new Filter)
  f1.io.x <> io.x

>  val tmp1 = Wire(Flipped(DecoupledIO(UInt(8.W))))
>  val tmp2 = Wire(DecoupledIO(UInt(8.W))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 val tmp1 = Wire(new FilterIO)
 val tmp2 = Wire(new FilterIO)
```

These should have the same type as `io` does

  f1.io.y <> tmp1
  tmp1 <> tmp2
  tmp2 <> f2.io.x
  f2.io.y <> io.y
}

```
Below we can see the resulting error for this example:

> ```scala modc:crash

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```scala mdoc:crash
```

Reviewer 2: This still looks wrong

ChiselStage.emitVerilog(new BlockWithTemporaryWires)
```
For more details and information, see [Deep Dive into Connection Operators](Connection-operators-.md)

> ## The standard ready-valid interface (ReadyValidIO / Decoupled)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

NOTE: When using `Chisel._` (compatibility mode) instead of `chisel3._`, the `:=` operator works in a bidirectional fashion similar to `<>`, but not exactly the same.

## The standard ready-valid interface (ReadyValidIO / Decoupled)
```

> Bulk connections connect leaf ports of the same name to each other. If the names do not match or are missing, Chisel does not generate a connection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Bulk connections connect leaf ports of the same name to each other. If the names do not match or are missing, Chisel will give an error such as in the following example:
```

```scala mdoc:silent:reset
import chisel3._

class SimpleLink extends Bundle {
  val data = Output(UInt(16.W))
  val valid = Output(Bool())
  val ready = Input(Bool())
}
class PLink extends SimpleLink {
  val parity = Output(UInt(5.W))
}

> class FilterIO extends Bundle {

Reviewer 2: since we've already defined SimpleLink, PLink,FilterIO for this example we just can remove these here, and just put the `NotReallyAFilterIO`, and the new `Block`

  val x = Flipped(new PLink)
  val y = new PLink
}
class NotReallyAFilterIO extends Bundle {
  val x = Flipped(new PLink)
  val y = new PLink

>   //val z = Output(new Bool())

Reviewer 2: to make the error show up, you'd need to uncomment this line.

}
class Block extends Module {
  val io1 = IO(new FilterIO)
  val io2 = IO(Flipped(new NotReallyAFilterIO))

  io1 <> io2
}
```
Caution: bulk connections should only be used with **directioned elements** (like IOs), and is not magical (e.g. connecting two wires isn't supported since Chisel can't necessarily figure out the directions automatically [chisel3#603](https://github.com/freechipsproject/chisel3/issues/603)).

> ```scala mdoc:silent:reset

Reviewer 2: For example, putting a temporary wire here:
(the current mdoc)
will give you the error like:
... show the error with mdoc

> ```scala mdoc:silent:reset

Reviewer 2: I would get rid of the `reset` here so we get to keep using the classes

import chisel3._
import chisel3.util.DecoupledIO

> class Wrapper extends Module{

Reviewer 2: Maybe in this document we should rewrite this complicated example to use the same classes that are already in this document

Reviewer 2: Something like:

```
class Block extends Module {
  val io = IO(new FilterIO)
  val f1 = Module(new Filter)
  val f2 = Module(new Filter)
  f1.io.x <> io.x
 val tmp = Wire(...)
  f1.io.y <> tmp
  tmp <> f2.io.x
  f2.io.y <> io.y
}
```

  val io = IO(new Bundle {
  val in = Flipped(DecoupledIO(UInt(8.W)))
  val out = DecoupledIO(UInt(8.W))
  })
  val p = Module(new PipelineStage)
  val c = Module(new PipelineStage) 
  //connect Producer to IO
  io.in := DontCare
  p.io.a <> DontCare
  val tmp = Wire(Flipped(DecoupledIO(UInt(8.W))))
  tmp := DontCare
  p.io.a <> io.in
  // connect producer to consumer
  c.io.a <> p.io.b
  //connect consumer to IO
  io.out <> c.io.b
}
class PipelineStage extends Module{
  val io = IO(new Bundle{
    val a = Flipped(DecoupledIO(UInt(8.W)))
    val b = DecoupledIO(UInt(8.W))
  })
  io.b <> io.a
}
```

> ## The standard ready-valid interface (ReadyValidIO / Decoupled)

Reviewer 2: For more details and information, see <link to your new document>

Reviewer 2: You can create a link as we do in the table of contents for each section: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/chipsalliance/chisel3/ffe1a9c657c022b27cac8c5a514fdadc1f1c607f/docs/src/explanations/explanations.md

(Text)[name-of-doc]

This will work since both are in the same folder

```scala mdoc:silent

class NotReallyAFilterIO extends Bundle {
  val x = Flipped(new PLink)
  val y = new PLink
  val z = Output(new Bool())
}
class Block2 extends Module {
  val io1 = IO(new FilterIO)
  val io2 = IO(Flipped(new NotReallyAFilterIO))

  io1 <> io2
}
```
Below we can see the resulting error for this example:
```scala mdoc:crash
ChiselStage.emitVerilog(new Block2)
```
Bidirectional connections should only be used with **directioned elements** (like IOs), e.g. connecting two wires isn't supported since Chisel can't necessarily figure out the directions automatically.
For example, putting two temporary wires and connecting them here will not work, even though the directions could be known from the endpoints:

```scala mdoc:silent

class BlockWithTemporaryWires extends Module {
  val io = IO(new FilterIO)
  val f1 = Module(new Filter)
  val f2 = Module(new Filter)
  f1.io.x <> io.x
 val tmp1 = Wire(new FilterIO)
 val tmp2 = Wire(new FilterIO)
  f1.io.y <> tmp1
  tmp1 <> tmp2
  tmp2 <> f2.io.x
  f2.io.y <> io.y
}

```
Below we can see the resulting error for this example:
```scala mdoc:crash
ChiselStage.emitVerilog(new BlockWithTemporaryWires)
```

> For more details and information, see [Deep Dive into Connection Operators](Connection-operators-.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more details and information, see [Deep Dive into Connection Operators](connection-operators.md)
```

```

> where <> bulk connects interfaces of opposite gender between sibling modules or interfaces of the same gender between parent/child modules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

The bidirectional bulk connection operator `<>` connects leaf ports of the same name to each other. The Scala types of the Bundles are not required to match. If one named signal is missing from either side, Chisel will give an error such as in the following example:

```scala mdoc:silent

class NotReallyAFilterIO extends Bundle {
  val x = Flipped(new PLink)
  val y = new PLink
  val z = Output(new Bool())
}
class Block2 extends Module {
  val io1 = IO(new FilterIO)
  val io2 = IO(Flipped(new NotReallyAFilterIO))

  io1 <> io2
}
```
Below we can see the resulting error for this example:
```scala mdoc:crash
ChiselStage.emitVerilog(new Block2)
```

> Caution: bulk connections should only be used with **directioned elements** (like IOs), and is not magical (e.g. connecting two wires isn't supported since Chisel can't necessarily figure out the directions automatically [chisel3#603](https://github.com/freechipsproject/chisel3/issues/603)).
> 
> For example, putting two temporary wires and connecting them here will not work, even though the directions could be known from the endpoints:
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Bidirectional connections should only be used with **directioned elements** (like IOs), e.g. connecting two wires isn't supported since Chisel can't necessarily figure out the directions automatically.
For example, putting two temporary wires and connecting them here will not work, even though the directions could be known from the endpoints:

```
